# Digimon!

## Purpose
In this lab, we used variables, lists/dictionaries, functions, and loops in Python code in order to examine a Digimon dataset.

## Starting Out

My first step in the process was creating the table and the nested dictionary. But before doing so, I imported and opened the digimon.csv file, and read through it. Then I created the DictReader object to go through the list. 

``` 
import csv
with open("datasets/digimon.csv", "r") as f: 
    data = list(csv.DictReader(f)) 
```

Next, I made a table to store and organize the data.Then I created a variable for each parameter that I would be using to store all of the data in the dataset for that parameter. For instance, creating the variable **"digi"** stored all of the data in the dataset for the digimon. 
```
    table = {} 
    for digimon in data:
        digi = digimon["Digimon"]
        Type = digimon["Type"] 
        attr = digimon["Attribute"]
        memory = digimon["Memory"]
        HP = digimon["HP"]
        SP = digimon["SP"]
        attack = digimon["Atk"]
        speed = digimon["Spd"]
```
Then, I added these variables to the table through using *if statements*. I used **digi** as the key in the nested dictionary, and the values of this dictionary were dictionaries, with keys of things like *HP, speed, type, etc.* In order to add these, I said that if the value of the dictionary is not in the table, then we will add one to that value for that specific species in order to account for the next term in the list. For instance HP is a value inside of the species and if a line in the data that has a specific HP for Yokomon, is not in the table, then we will add one to that value of HP, for Yokomon in order to account for that term in the list. 

```
if digi not in table:
            table[digi] = {} 
        if HP not in table[digi]:
            table[digi]["HP"]= HP
        if speed not in table[digi]:
            table[digi]["speed"]= speed
        if Type not in table[digi]:
            table[digi]["Type"]= Type
        if attr not in table[digi]:
            table[digi]["attribute"]= attr
        if attack not in table[digi]:
            table[digi]["attack"]= attack
        if memory not in table[digi]:
            table[digi]["memory"]= memory
```


## Answering the Questions

### 1. What is the average speed (Spd) of all Digimon? 
</br>

In order to answer this question, I figured that I would need to take all of the speeds of each digimon, add them together, and then divide this value by the  number of digimon in order to compute the average speed for ALL digimon. So, I used a counter variable to count everytime a digimon's speed was added to the total, and incrimented it by 1 everytime the for loop was run. 
```
    counter = 0.0
    total = 0.0

    for digi in table:
            # take the speed of each digi type and add together 
     # go into digi[speed], which is type dictionary, convert that to a float, and add them all together 
        total += (float(table[digi]["speed"]))
        
            # we take the total speed of the digimon in table[digi][speed], and make it into a float 
        counter += 1 # calculates the number of billlengths
print(total / counter)
```
### My Answer: 
The average speed of all of the digimon is **120.40160642570281** distance/time (idk the units lol).

### 2. Write a function that can count the number of Digimon with a specific attribute.  


In order to do this, I created a function called **count_digimon** that counts the number of digimon that have a specific value of a specific attribute. So, I created a variable called **count** to count for each digimon with that value and to store it as a dictionary value. Then I returned count, sending the final value back to the function for it to print. 
```
def count_digimon(attr, value):
    count = 0
        #iterate through all of the digimon with the specific value
        #use a count variable to count for each digimon with that value and store that as a dictionary value. 
    for digi in table:
        if table[digi][attr]== value:
            count+=1
    return count


print(count_digimon ("Type", "Vaccine"))
```
### My Answer: 
When I stated *print(count_digimon("Type", "Vaccine"))*, my answer was **70**.

### 3. The Digimon on your team are restricted by the total amount of Memory that they need. If your team only has 15 Memory, name a team of up to 3 Digimon that has at least 300 attack in total.

In order to do this, I first extracted the main components of the task, and figured that I needed a team of 3 digimon, with an attack of at least 300 in total, and a memory of 15 or less. So I used a for loop and used a team variable to ensure that exactly 3 digimon would be printed, and these digimon would each have a attack greater than 100, and a memory of 5 or less. In order to ensure I had exactly 3 digimon being printed, I used a team variable, set it equal to zero, an incremented it so that everytime the for loop ran it would increase by one, and when it reached three, the loop stopped running. 
```
team=0
for digi in table :
    if float(table[digi]["attack"]) > 100.0 and float(table[digi]["memory"]) < 6 and team < 3:
        team+=1
        print(digi)
```
### My Answer: 
When I stated *print(digi)*,my answer was **Koromon,Tsunomon and Tsumemon**.

## Who I worked with!
I worked on this lab with Larry, and asked Mr. Lee some questions about it as well. 
